# bioinformatics
Several projects and works from the bioinformatics course   
* global_aligners: <br>Programs calculate the optimal global alignment of two sequences using the Needleman-Wunsch algorithm, using a DNAfull penalty matrix and an affine or linear gap penalty.<br>
* mapper: <br>The mapper based on the construction of a hash table for the reference genome. The program accepts a genome in FASTA format, the number k, creates a hash table and saves it to a file. After that, it reads this file and reads in FASTQ format and performs mapping of the reads (without gaps).<br>
*(a file with a hash table weighs a lot, so a part of it is attached as an example)*<br>
* human_dna_project: <br>The program determines at what minimum number of k there is a nucleotide sequence of length k that does not occur in the human genome and counts the number of such sequences.
* covid_project: <br>1. Comparison of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV coronaviruses by amino acid sequences of NSP12 protein Spike proteins.<br>2. Estimation of the average number of mutations in Spike and NCP12 proteins in SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus sequences (Russian samples) relative to the Wuhan reference.<br>3. The most frequent single nucleotide substitution in a Spike protein.<br>4. Finding the most evolutionarily close and most distant viruses (among SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, HCoV-OC43, HCoV-NL63, HCoV-HKU1, HCoV-229E), based on the score of alignment of their genome sequences.<br>5. Creating a hash table for the k-mers of the SARS-CoV-2 genome. Searching for the minimum value of k, at which exactly one position corresponds to each fragment. <br>
* restoration_of_the_circular_genome_sequence: <br>Assembly of the circular genome using the Eulerian cycle search.
* colon_adenocarcinoma_project:<br>1. Finding the top 10 most highly expressed genes. Expression units are normalized using DESeq2 RPKM.<br>2. Finding the top 10 genes with the smallest spread of expression between samples (housekeeping genes).Expression units are normalized using DESeq2 RPKM.<br>3. Finding 10 genes whose average expression varies most between cancer and the norm. Expression units are normalized using DESeq2 RPKM.<br>4. Comparison of the top 10 most differentially expressed genes according to the Student's t-criterion and DESeq2.
* breast_cancer_project:<br>1. Percentage of normally distributed genes among breast cancer samples<br>2. Searching for genes coexpressed with transcription factor SP1 in healthy breast cells.<br>3. Analysis of the expression of ESR1, PGR, ERBB2 and MKI67 genes in different subtypes of breast cancer. Comparison with PCA visualization.<br>4. Comparison of SVM models for breast cancer recurrence classification based on all genes and a sample of 11 genes.<br>5. Comparison of classifiers for determining the subtype of breast cancer (luminal A vs. luminal B): linear SVM, linear SVM (top-2 features) and logistic regression.
* pubmed_articles_project:<br>Visualization using t-SNE and PCA of Pubmed articles (1000 articles on the keyword "cancer" and 1000 articles on the keyword "virus").<br>1. Mapping the names into a numeric space using bags of words (CountVectorizer). <br>2. Using self-made distance matrix + preprocessing using nltk library.
